# Opting Out of the Pull Server Approach
The way we've been going on, you may be assuming that a pull server is a mandatory part of the DSC infrastructure. It isn't. A pull server is useful when - and _only_ when, you plan to create updated configuration MOFs from time to time, especially if that's frequently, and you want nodes to automagically grab them and implement them.

We tend to assume that this is the "best" way because we use Group Policy that way. But for server workloads in particular, you may decide _you don't even want a pull server at all_. For example, DSC currently doesn't support anything like maintenance windows or scheduled downtime, so constantly pulling and implementing configurations _might_ be disruptive in your environment. 

Instead, you could choose to simple _push_ new configurations whenever you want to. And this isn't necessarily a manual procedure, either - keep in mind, DSC is a _platform_, not a _solution_ that includes ready-made tools. We're aware of at least one organization that has constructed their own (sadly proprietary) "push server." That server is configured with maintenance window information, and a database of configurations. When a configuration changes, the server waits until a window is open, and then _pushes_ the new configuration to the node. It has a lot of error handling and alerting, so that if a push attempt fails, everyone's informed.

The point of this short chapter is to emphasize that _DSC is what you need it to be_, provided you're willing to (A) be creative, and (B) implement you own solutions on top of DSC, as needed.